**TODO: Update to use new in\_layer API**

In Ruby there are multiple ways of defining behaviour on the class side. That
are messages that are send to the class, not to the instance. Class side 
behaviour is often useful for functional methods, i.e. methods that do not
rely on inner state and have no side effects. Mathematical functions have 
these characteristics - that is where the name probably comes from.

**Note**: Java programmers may know these methods as static. It is similar but 
not exactly the same.


Using `def self.method_name`
-----------------------------

The simpliest way of defining class side behaviour is prepending self. to the
method definition. This way, the method is attached to the surrounding class 
and not instance. A simple example:

    class SimpleMath
      def self.pi
        3.14159265
      end
    end

    example do
      result_of(SimpleMath.pi) == 3.14159265
    end


Using `class << self`
---------------------

When you are having lots of class side methods as well as instance side ones,
it can be difficult to spot the little self. in front of the method name.
Probably you like to group them more explicitly. You could use Ruby's
eigenclass principle for that. It will look like the following:

    class SimpleMath
      class << self
        def e
          2.71828183
        end
      end
    end

    example do
      result_of(SimpleMath.e) == 2.71828183 
    end

**Note**: Eigenclasses are also known as *singleton class* or *meta class*. 
I prefer eigenclass, because it not used with different meanings in other 
contexts, which eases talking about it with experts in different languages.

Using a module
--------------

For even more encapsulation you could also use modules and extend the class 
definition with them. I am using extend here on purpose. Module's include
method adds the behaviour to the instance side, extend to the class side.
Or to rephrase it: Module's include method adds the behaviour to instances, 
extend to the class itself.

    class SimpleMath
      module ClassMethods
        def golden_ratio
          1.6180339887
        end
      end

      extend ClassMethods
    end

    example do
      result_of(SimpleMath.golden_ratio) == 1.6180339887 
    end

The last method is e.g. used in the web framework Ruby on Rails. Often
a variation of it is used to define class and instance side behaviour for
mixin modules

    module MathMixin
      def counter
        @counter ||= 0
        @counter += 1
      end

      module ClassMethods
        def sqrt(x)
          x ** 0.5
        end
      end

      def self.included(base)
        base.extend ClassMethods
      end
    end

    class SimpleMath
      include MathMixin
    end

    example do
      result_of(SimpleMath.sqrt(4)) == 2

      my_simple_math = SimpleMath.new
      result_of(my_simple_math.counter) == 1
      result_of(my_simple_math.counter) == 2
    end

This is regarded as the most elegant way of defining class and instance 
methods for a mixin module. And the basic functionality is the same as in the
previous example.

After we now know how to define class side behaviour, everybody is curious
to know how to extend this behaviour using context-oriented programming and
ContextR.

Additionial, context-dependent behaviour is defined in `in_layer` blocks. 
These are then attached to the layer, in which the behaviour should reside. 
For examples on the instance side have a look at the bottom of 
`test_introduction`.

Let's look how we can achieve the same on the class side for each of the 
different methods of defining class side behaviour.


Using `def self.method_name`
----------------------------

**TODO: Allow def self.method\_name to add class side behaviour**

Okay, we won't get rid of the modules, used to encapsulate the 
context-dependent behaviour, so the extension is a bit noisier, than the 
basic notation.

    class SimpleMath
      class << self
        in_layer :access_control do
          def pi
            "You are not allowed to access this method"
          end
        end
      end
    end

But we can use the same principles, like we did for the instance side. Simply
use a hash to tell extend, that the module should only be used in a certain
layer.

    example do
      result_of(SimpleMath.pi) == 3.14159265

      ContextR::with_layer :access_control do
        result_of(SimpleMath.pi) == "You are not allowed to access this method" 
      end
    end


Using `class << self`
---------------------

When your using the eigenclass, you are able to use to good old in\_layer to
manage the extension. 

    class SimpleMath
      class << self
        in_layer :english do
          def e
            "Euler's constant"
          end
        end
      end

      class << self
        in_layer :german do
          def e
            "Eulersche Zahl"
          end
        end
      end
    end

    example do
      result_of(SimpleMath.e) == 2.71828183 

      ContextR::with_layer :german do
        result_of(SimpleMath.e) == "Eulersche Zahl" 
      end
      ContextR::with_layer :english do
        result_of(SimpleMath.e) == "Euler's constant" 
      end
    end


Using a module
--------------

Hey, this is what we did all the time, so it is only natural to have the same
syntax to extend a class using in module for context-dependent behaviour. But
for the sake of completeness, I will attach another example.

    class SimpleMath
      class << self
        in_layer :exact_computation do
          def golden_ratio
            sleep(0.01) # In real life this would take a bit longer, 
                        # but I don't have the time.
            1.6180339887_4989484820_4586834365_6381177203_0917980576 
          end
        end
      end
    end

    example do
      result_of(SimpleMath.golden_ratio) == 1.6180339887

      ContextR::with_layer :exact_computation do
        result_of(SimpleMath.golden_ratio) == 
                      1.6180339887_4989484820_4586834365_6381177203_0917980576 
      end
    end


Conclusion
----------

In general, there are two options to define context-dependent class side
behaviour. Use in\_layer in the eigenclass or use extend anywhere else. Both
options result in the same behaviour, just like the different options in 
plain ruby look different, but have the same effect.

The programmer is free to use, whatever suites best. This is still Ruby.

