This explanation is a bit tricky. First of all thread programming is always 
tricky and then, testing threads to gain repeatable results makes it even less 
readable.

I tried to improve it by defining a little helper method called `step`. It shall
test if all chunks are executed in the expected order and additionally check
if the expected layers are activated. 


Layer activation shall be dynamically scoped. This is basically no problem, but
it gets messy when doing thread programming and switching between scopes. The
ugly part is done by Christian Neukirchen's dynamic.rb library.

The following example does not demonstrate anything useful. It is just a more or
less readable test. Follow the `step`s, if you want to get the execution order.
As you may see, leaving the inner block in step 5 results in the "lost" layer 
`:b` and it is "restored" in step 6. This is the base line of this test. All 
the rest is support code.

    example do
      def step(index, *layers)
        @step ||= 0
        assert_equal(index, @step += 1) if index
        assert_equal(layers, ContextR::active_layers)
      end

      mutex = Mutex.new

      one_block = lambda do
        mutex.lock
        ContextR::with_layer :b do
          step(3, :a, :b)
          mutex.unlock
          sleep(0.1)
          mutex.lock
          step(5, :a, :b)
        end
      end

      two_block = lambda do
        mutex.lock
        step(4, :a)
        mutex.unlock
      end

      step(1)
      ContextR::with_layer :a do
        step(2, :a)

        one = Thread.new(&one_block) 
        two = Thread.new(&two_block)
        
        step(nil, :a)

        one.join
        two.join

        step(6, :a)
      end
      step(7)
    end
