One of the most frequent examples for the use of aspect oriented programming
is caching. You have a method, that takes some time to compute a result,
but the result is always the same, if the parameters are the same. Such
methods are often called functions. The have no side effects and do not depend
on inner state.

Perhaps you would like to attach caching to such functions. But only under
certain circumstances. If your application lacks time, it is a good idea to
activate result caching. If it lacks memory, it is a bad one.

This perfectly sounds like a problem, that can be solved using 
context-oriented programming.

But for caching, we need a place to store the computed results. One could
store them in the instance that computes them, but this would be strange,
because, the code residing in it does not make direct use of this state.
Perhaps we are using variables, that other methods use for their own
purpose and this would result in strange results. We could use cryptic 
instance variable names, but all this is just a workaround.

What we want is to attach the state to the code, that uses it. This is the
main idea of object-oriented design anyway. So ContextR gives you the 
opportunity to save state inside your method modules. Code and state stay
side by side. This state will reside there even after deactivating the
layer, so you can reuse it. Perfect for our caching approach.


Fibonacci numbers
-----------------

We will use the good old Fibonacci numbers to demonstrate our approach. First
the simple recursive computation, that becomes really slow for larger numbers.
I know that there is a non-recursive algorithm, working faster, but this 
would not make such a good example. So just assume, that the following
code is the fastest, you could possibly get.

    module Fibonacci
      module ClassMethods
        def compute(fixnum)
          if fixnum == 1 or fixnum == 0
            fixnum
          elsif fixnum < 0
            raise ArgumentError, "Fibonacci not defined for negative numbers"
          else
            compute(fixnum - 1) + compute(fixnum - 2)
          end
        end
      end
      self.extend(ClassMethods)
    end

    example do
      result_of(Fibonacci.compute(1)) == 1
      result_of(Fibonacci.compute(2)) == 1
      result_of(Fibonacci.compute(3)) == 2
    end

Just to make sure, that it is slow, I will try to compute Fib(100)

    require 'timeout'
    example do
      timeout_raised = false
      begin
        Timeout::timeout(0.05) do
          Fibonacci.compute(100)
        end

      rescue Timeout::Error
        timeout_raised = true
      end

      result_of(timeout_raised) == true
    end

Okay, the 0.01 seconds are really impatient, but I know, that caching will 
come to rescue and makes it happen.

Let's define a simple caching method. If I already know the result, return
it, if not, let the base implementation compute it and save the it into
our variable.

    module Fibonacci
      module ClassMethods
        in_layer :cache do
          def cache
            @cache ||= {}
          end

          def compute(fixnum)
            cache[fixnum] ||= super 
          end
        end
      end
    end

If you are not familiar with the above syntax, to define context dependent 
behaviour, have a look at `test_class_side.rb`.

Now let's compute Fib(100) again. Of course with caching enabled

    example do
      timeout_raised = false
      begin
        Timeout::timeout(0.1) do
          ContextR::with_layer :cache do
            result_of(Fibonacci.compute(100)) == 354_224_848_179_261_915_075
          end
        end

      rescue Timeout::Error
        timeout_raised = true
      end

      # This time the time out was not triggered
      result_of(timeout_raised) == false 
    end

It is that simple to add state to your method modules. And just to make sure,
that I did not cheat, I will add a simple case, were instance variables and
layer specific variables _would_ conflict, but in fact don't.

    class LayerStateExample
      attr_accessor :state
      in_layer :test_layer_state do
        attr_accessor :state
      end
    end

When StateMethods would be included normally, its `attr_accessor` would simply
be the same as in the class. But this does not happen, when using layers.

Let's do a little warm up and make sure, everything works as expected.

    $layer_state_example = LayerStateExample.new

    example do
      $layer_state_example.state = true
      result_of($layer_state_example.state) == true
      $layer_state_example.state = false 
      result_of($layer_state_example.state) == false

      ContextR::with_layer :test_layer_state do
        $layer_state_example.state = true
        result_of($layer_state_example.state) == true
        $layer_state_example.state = false 
        result_of($layer_state_example.state) == false
      end
    end

Until now, I did not prove anything. Let's try it.

    example do
      # Set the state
      $layer_state_example.state = true
      ContextR::with_layer :test_layer_state do
        $layer_state_example.state = false 
      end

      # And make sure, that they differ
      result_of($layer_state_example.state) == true

      ContextR::with_layer :test_layer_state do
        result_of($layer_state_example.state) == false
      end
    end

The last example was very theoretical and looks strange when seen isolated.
Its main purpose is to show, that layer specific methods and base methods
do not share their state, and that the layer specific state remains, also
after layer deactivation. Don't take too serious.
