There are certain cases (i.e. Classes and Methods), that may not be extended
with ContextR. These are e.g. some methods in Enumberable, Array and Hash, 
that are used internally in ContextR. Extending them would simply result in 
endless stacks.

In custom classes, i.e. classes defined by your code, every method may be 
extended. There are only 4 exceptions and one corner case.

First the exceptions. You may never extend

* `__id__`
* `__send__`
* `__clone__`
* `extend`

The first shall not be redefined in any case. That is why this triggers a 
warning. The latter is used by ContextR. This currently cannot be circumvented.

`method_missing`
----------------

`method_missing` is the corner case. It is used in ContextR as well, and its
redefinition is difficult, but since the functionality of method missing is 
one of the core ingredients of cleanly designed Ruby programs, it is still 
possible to extend it with context-dependent behaviour. There is one simple
limitation. Do not use `super` to call the next layer, but use `yield(:next)` 
instead.

The following code will show the right usage.

    class MethodMissingExample
      def method_missing(*a)
        "base"
      end

      in_layer :one do
        def method_missing(*a)
          "pre_one " + yield(:next, *a)
        end
      end
      in_layer :two do
        def method_missing(*a)
          yield(:next, *a) + " post_two"
        end
      end
    end

    example do
      instance = MethodMissingExample.new
      result_of(instance.any_method) == "base"

      ContextR::with_layer :one do
        result_of(instance.any_method) == "pre_one base"
      end
      ContextR::with_layer :two do
        result_of(instance.any_method) == "base post_two"
      end

      ContextR::with_layer :one, :two do
        result_of(instance.any_method) == "pre_one base post_two"
      end
    end

Accessing `self`
----------------

Then there are other problems, related to the way ContextR is implemented and
its archetecture is designed. The additional context-dependent behaviour does 
not reside in the extended object itself but in the corresponding layer, or to
be exact, in an anonymous module, that is constructed for each 
layer-class-combination. This results in different `self`s for base code and
layer code. This is in fact not by intention but by accident.

In order to access the original `self`, the one defined by the object, the 
message was sent to, there is a workaround. Since we did not want to change
the method signature, the receiver is avaible in a block, that is passed to
each layer method. `yield(:receiver)` gives you a pointer to it. Please be 
aware, that you will be able to access public methods only. Everything else 
could be easily implemented using `instance_eval`, although this has some 
performance implications.

If you would like to see `yield(:receiver)` in action, have a look at the other
examples, e.g. the buttom of the Introduction.

Passing Blocks
--------------

As already mentioned, ContextR uses a block to pass parameters to each layered
method. This implies, that methods, expecting a block, cannot easily access it.

But this is only partially true. Every method in a layered stack may access it
simply by calling `yield(:block)`. Of course, you should test, if a block was
given with `yield(:block_given?)`. It is also possible to pass a new block to
subsequent calls, but that is not to easy, since it is not possible to pass a 
block as argument to a block. But again, there is a slightly ugly workaround.

All this may be observed in the following artificial example.

    class TheMagi
      include Enumerable

      def casper; "Casper"; end
      def melchior; "Melchior"; end
      def balthasar; "Balthasar"; end

      def name_methods
        %w(casper melchior balthasar)
      end

      def each
        if block_given?
          name_methods.each do |name|
            yield self.send(name)
          end
        else
          raise ArgumentError, "No block given"
        end
      end
    end

    example do
      the_magi = TheMagi.new
      names = the_magi.inject do |akku, element|
        akku.to_s + " " + element.to_s 
      end

      result_of(names) == "Casper Melchior Balthasar"
    end

Okay, now we got a working `TheMagi` class, providing an Array-like interface.
Let's assume, we need HTML-output under certain circumstances. I know this
example is not to useful, but I needed anything to explain some things.

    class TheMagi
      in_layer :html_output do
        def each
          if yield(:block_given?)
            yield(:receiver).name_methods.each do |name|
              king = yield(:receiver).send(name)
              yield(:block).call("<strong>#{king}</strong>")
            end
          else
            raise ArgumentError, "No block given"
          end
        end
      end
    end

    example do
      the_magi = TheMagi.new
      ContextR::with_layer :html_output do
        names = the_magi.inject do |akku, element|
          akku.to_s + " " + element.to_s 
        end

        result_of(names) == "<strong>Casper</strong> " +
                            "<strong>Melchior</strong> " +
                            "<strong>Balthasar</strong>"
      end
    end

So this is how you would use a block, that is provided by a user of your method.
But you may as well change the block, that will be passed to subsequent layers
including the base method.

The `each` in the `:html_output` layer could as well be implemented in another
way. I will name it `:xml_output` lacking a better name. I'm sorry, that this
looks so ugly. I would be happy, if I would know a nicer way.

    class TheMagi
      in_layer :xml_output do
        def each
          old_block = yield(:block)

          new_block = lambda do |element|
            old_block.call("<name>" + element + "</name>")
          end

          yield(:block=, new_block)
          return_value = super
          yield(:block=, old_block)

          return_value
        end
      end
    end
 
In the first step, we store the original block in a local variable. Afterwards,
we create the block, i.e. a lambda, that should replace the old block. We
may easily access the old one, since we stored it beforehand. This local 
variable will still be available, when the block is executed.

In the next step, the `new_block` is registered as parameter for subsequent 
methods. Then we may call super to pass the control flow to the next layer and
the base method. Finally we should restore the old block, since layers, that
were execute before, will get control again, after this execution is finished 
and they might be confused, that the block changed by calling super. This would
break the call stack behaviour.

Finally, we need to store the return value and give it back explicitly, 
otherwise the block would be the result.

If in future, this functionality is more often used, I may think about a way
to make this easier. For now, this is the way to go. Sorry.

Oh. Let's use the code and test its output:

    example do
      the_magi = TheMagi.new
      ContextR::with_layer :xml_output do
        names = the_magi.inject do |akku, element|
          akku.to_s + " " + element.to_s 
        end

        result_of(names) == "<name>Casper</name> " +
                            "<name>Melchior</name> " +
                            "<name>Balthasar</name>"
      end
    end
