This explanation is a bit tricky. First of all thread programming is always 
tricky and then, testing threads to gain repeatable results makes it even less 
readable.

I tried to improve it by defining a little helper method called `step`. It shall
test if all chunks are executed in the expected order and additionally check
if the expected layers are activated. 

    def step(index, *layers)
      $step ||= 0
      assert_equal(index, $step += 1)
      assert_equal(layers, ContextR::active_layers)
    end

Layer activation shall be dynamically scoped. This is basically no problem, but
it gets messy when doing thread programming and switching between scopes. The
ugly part is done by Christian Neukirchen's dynamic.rb library.

The following example does not demonstrate anything useful. It is just a more or
less readable test. Follow the `step`s, if you want to get the execution order.
As you may see, leaving the inner block in step 5 results in the "lost" layer 
`:b` and it is "restored" in step 6. This is the base line of this test. All 
the rest is support code.

    example do
      mutex = Mutex.new

      step(1)
      ContextR::with_layer :a do
        step(2, :a)

        a = Thread.new do
          mutex.lock
          ContextR::with_layer :b do
            step(3, :a, :b)
            mutex.unlock
            sleep(0.1)
            mutex.lock
            step(5, :a, :b)
          end
        end

        b = Thread.new do
          mutex.lock
          step(4, :a)
          mutex.unlock
        end

        a.join
        b.join
        step(6, :a)
      end
      step(7)
    end
