Let's build a simple student's database. Each University has a name and 
address. Each student has a name, address and an associated university.

We are using a `Struct` to build our classes in an easy way. This provides 
all getters, setters and an easy constructor setting all the instance 
variables.

**Note**: In order to get a nice output in our program we override the #to\_s 
method which is used in many cases by ruby, e.g. in Kernel#puts or in String 
interpolation.

In most of the cases, the name is sufficient to represent each entity, i.e.
a student or a university.

    class University < Struct.new(:name, :address)
      def to_s
        name
      end
    end

    class Student < Struct.new(:name, :address, :university)
      def to_s
        name
      end
    end

Under certain circumstances we would like to have a more verbose output.
This could mean print the university a student belongs to or attach the
address to the output.

Additonal methods
=================

In a plain old Ruby project, this would result in additional methods, 
propably encapsulated in modules, that will be included into our classes. 
This allows reuse and better encapsulation.

    module AddressOutput
      def to_s_with_address
        "#{self} (#{self.address})"
      end
    end

    class University
      include AddressOutput
    end

Now each university got a to\_s\_with\_address method that could be called 
instead of to\_s if you would like to have additional information.

    class Student
      include AddressOutput

      def to_s_with_university
        "#{self}; #{self.unversity}"
      end
      def to_s_with_university_and_address
        "#{self.to_s_with_address}; #{self.unversity.to_s_with_address}"
      end
    end

The same for each student. #to\_s\_with\_unversity and 
#to\_s\_with\_university\_and\_address give as well additional output.

So how can you use it. Let's create some instances first.

    $hpi = University.new("HPI", "Potsdam")
    $gregor = Student.new("Gregor", "Berlin", $hpi)

An now some output. 

**Note**: This could live inside an erb template, a graphical 
ui or printed to the command line. In all these cases to\_s is called 
automatically by the standard libary to receive a good representation of 
the object.       
The output method defined in test\_helper.rb simulates this behaviour. All
examples are converted to test class automatically, so we can be sure, that
this document stays in sync with the libary.

   puts $gregor   # => prints "Gregor"
   "#{$gregor}"   # => evaluates to "Gregor"
   <%= $gregor %>   => as well as this
{:execute=false}

    output_of($gregor) == "Gregor"
    output_of($hpi) == "HPI"
{:execute=false}

Assume, we would like to print an address list now.

    example do
      output_of($gregor.to_s_with_address) == "Gregor (Berlin)"
    end

If you want a list with university and addresses, you would use 
#to\_s\_with\_university\_and\_address. No automatic call to to\_s anymore. If 
you have your layout in an erb template, you have to change each and every 
occurrence of your variables.


Redefining to\_s
===============

To solve this problem you could redefine to\_s on demand. I will demonstrate
this with some meta programming in a fresh class.

    module GenericToS
      def to_s
        self.class.included_vars.collect do |var|
          self.send(var)
        end.join("; ")
      end


      module ClassMethods
        attr_accessor :included_vars
        def set_to_s(*included_vars)
          self.included_vars = included_vars
        end
      end

      def self.included(base_class)
        base_class.send(:extend, ClassMethods)
      end
    end

    class Company < Struct.new(:name, :address)
      include GenericToS
    end

    class Employee < Struct.new(:name, :address, :company)
      include GenericToS
    end

I will not go into detail how this code works, but I will show you how to 
use it. Let's get some instances first.

    $ms = Company.new("Microsoft", "Redmond")
    $bill = Employee.new("Bill", "Redmond", $ms)

And now use these instances.

    example do
      Company.set_to_s(:name)
      Employee.set_to_s(:name)

      output_of($ms) == "Microsoft"
      output_of($bill) == "Bill"
    end

Let's get the output including the addresses

    example do
      Employee.set_to_s(:name, :address)

      output_of($bill) == "Bill; Redmond"
    end

And including the employer

    example do
      Employee.set_to_s(:name, :address, :company)

      output_of($bill) == "Bill; Redmond; Microsoft"
    end

But hey. I wanted to have a list with all addresses, not just the 
employee's. This should be an address list, right? But we did not tell 
the Company class to print the address, but just the Employee class.

So in our first approach, we had to change each place, where we use the
object. In the second approach we have to know all places where an address
is stored and apply the changes in there.

By the way, what happens, if I was using a multi-threaded application and
one user request a simple name list, and the other switches to an address 
list in the meantime. Then the output will be mixed - with and without 
addresses. This is not exactly what we want. So there has to be an easier, 
thread safe solution.


ContextR
========

This is were context-oriented programming comes into play. I will again 
start from the scratch. It is not much and we all know the problem space 
now.

The same setup, just another setting. First the basic implementation, just 
like we did it in our first approach.

    class Religion < Struct.new(:name, :origin)
      def to_s
        name
      end
    end
    class Believer < Struct.new(:name, :origin, :religion)
      def to_s
        name
      end
    end

Now define the additional behaviour in separate modules. Please don't be 
scared because of the strange syntax and method calls.
yield(:receiver) refers to the "normal" self when these modules are 
included.

Future versions of ContextR will hopefully provide a nicer syntax here.

Finally we need to link our additional behaviour to our basic classes.
We also need to tell the framework, when this behaviour should be applied.

    module OriginMethods
      def to_s
        "#{super} (#{yield(:receiver).origin})"
      end
    end

    class Religion
      in_layer :location do
        include OriginMethods
      end
    end
    class Believer
      in_layer :location do
        include OriginMethods
      end
      in_layer :believe do
        def to_s
          "#{super}; #{yield(:receiver).religion}"
        end
      end
    end

The additional context dependent behaviour is organised within layers. A 
single layer may span multiple classes - in this case the location layer 
does. To enable the additional code, the programmes shall activate layers.
A layer activation is only effective within a block scope and within the 
current thread.

Let's see, how it looks like when we use it.

    $christianity = Religion.new("Christianity", "Israel")
    $the_pope = Believer.new("Benedikt XVI", "Bavaria", $christianity)

    example do
      output_of($christianity) == "Christianity"
      output_of($the_pope) == "Benedikt XVI"
    end

Would like to have an address? For this we have to activate the location 
layer. Now the additional behaviour defined within the layer, will be 
executed around the base method defined within the class.

    example do
      ContextR.with_layer :location do 
        output_of($christianity) == "Christianity (Israel)"
        output_of($the_pope) == "Benedikt XVI (Bavaria)"
      end
    end


Of course the additional behaviour is deactivated automatically after the
blocks execution.

    example do
      output_of($christianity) == "Christianity"
      output_of($the_pope) == "Benedikt XVI"
    end

Everything back to normal.

Lets activate the believe layer:

    example do
      ContextR.with_layer :believe do 
        output_of($the_pope) == "Benedikt XVI; Christianity"
      end
    end

Now we need both, location and believe. How does it look like? You have to
options. You may activate the two one after the other or all at once. It 
is just a matter of taste, the result remains the same.

    example do
      ContextR.with_layer :believe, :location do 
        output_of($the_pope) == "Benedikt XVI (Bavaria); Christianity (Israel)"
      end
    end

As you can see, the activation of the location layer is operative in the
whole execution context of the block. Each religion prints its origin, 
whether to\_s was called directly or indirectly.

If you change your mind within your call stack, you may of course 
deactivate layers again.

    example do
      ContextR.with_layer :believe do 
        ContextR::with_layer :location do
          output_of($the_pope) == 
                              "Benedikt XVI (Bavaria); Christianity (Israel)"

          ContextR.without_layer :believe do 
            output_of($the_pope) == "Benedikt XVI (Bavaria)"
          end

          output_of($the_pope) == 
                              "Benedikt XVI (Bavaria); Christianity (Israel)"
        end
      end
    end

These encaspulations may be as complex as your application. ContextR will
keep track of all activations and deactivations within the blocks and
restore the settings after the block was executed.

This was just a short introduction on a problem case, that can be solved
with context-oriented programming. You have seen, the advantages and how
to use it. In other files in this folder, you can learn more on the 
dynamics and meta programming interfaces of ContextR.
